## Exercise 1.12

For the $\mathsf{H_2}$ molecule, observations show that the depth of the potential is $V_0 = 0.747 \, \mathrm{eV}$ and the location of the potential minimun is $r_\mathrm{min} = 0.74166 \, \mathrm{Å}$. These two quantities, together with Eq. (1.23), imply a vibrational frequency of
\[
\hbar \omega = 0.492 V_0 = 2.339 \, \mathrm{eV} \;,
\]
more than four times larger than the experimentally observed energy difference between the ground and first vibrational state, $0.515 \, \mathrm{eV}$. The Lennard-Jones shape is therefore not a very good description of the potential of the $\mathsf{H_2}$ molecule. Another defect is that it predicts 6 bound states, while 15 are known to exist. (See Table 1.5)

$n$ | $E_n/\mathrm{eV}$ | $n$ | $E_n/\mathrm{eV}$
---:|----------| ---:|---------
$0$ | $-4.477$ | $8$ | $-1.151$
$1$ | $-3.962$ | $9$ | $-0.867$
$2$ | $-3.475$ | $10$| $-0.615$
$3$ | $-3.017$ | $11$| $-0.400$
$4$ | $-2.587$ | $12$| $-0.225$
$5$ | $-2.185$ | $13$| $-0.094$
$6$ | $-1.811$ | $14$| $-0.017$
$7$ | $-1.466$

A better analytic form of the potential, with more parameters, is required to reproduce simultaneously the depth and location of the minimum, the frequency of small amplitude vibrations about it, and the total number of bound states. One such form is the Morse potential,
\[
V(r) = V_0 [(1 - e^{-\beta (r-r_\mathrm{min})})^2 - 1]
\]
wich also can be solved analytically. The Morse potential has a minimum at the expected location and the parameter $\beta$ can be adjusted to fit the curvature of the minimum to the observed excitation energy of the first vibrational state. Find the value of $\beta$ appropriate for the $\mathsf{H_2}$ molecule, modify the program above to use the Morse potential, and calculate the spectrum of vibrational states. Show that a much more reasonable number of levels is obtained. Compare the energies with experiment and with those of the Lennard-Jones potential and interpret the latter differences.

### Solution

#### 1. Determine the Physical Model and Calculation Method

We write the scaled potential as the following fomular:
\[
v(x) = (1 - e^{-\beta\,r_\mathrm{min} \cdot (x-1)})^2 - 1
\]
The unit of $\beta$ should be the reciprocal of length ($\mathrm{Å}^{-1}$).

The bound condition (the formula we determine the $\varepsilon_n$) is
\[
s(\varepsilon_n) = \gamma \int_{x_\mathrm{in}}^{x_\mathrm{out}} \bigl( \varepsilon_n - v(x) \bigr)^{1/2} \mathrm{d}\, x = (n + \frac 1 2) \pi
\]
where $\gamma = 21.7$ and the integral upper and lower limit is defined by
\[
v(x) = 0
\]
That gives the result:
\[
x_\mathrm{in} = 1 + \frac{1}{\beta\,r_\mathrm{min}} \log \left( \frac{-1 + \sqrt{1+e}}{e} \right) \;, \qquad
x_\mathrm{out} = 1 + \frac{1}{\beta\,r_\mathrm{min}} \log \left( \frac{-1 - \sqrt{1+e}}{e} \right)
\]
Solve the bound condition for $\beta$ provided by
\[\varepsilon_0 = \frac{-4.447}{4.747} = 0.9431\]

#### 2. Solution by Mathematica

This following code presents the first energy state calculation (where $\beta = 1.68855 \, \mathrm{Å^{-1}}$ is optimized manually)
```Mathematica
Off[NIntegrate::nlim]
\[Gamma] = 21.7;
rMin = 0.74166;
Pot[x_] := (1 - Exp[-\[Beta]*rMin (x - 1)])^2 - 1
\[Beta] = 1.68855;
Re[e /. FindRoot[\[Gamma] NIntegrate[(e - Pot[x])^(1/2), {x,
        1 + (Log[(-1 + Sqrt[1 + e])/e])/(\[Beta] rMin),
        1 + (Log[(-1 - Sqrt[1 + e])/e])/(\[Beta] rMin)}]/Pi ==
    0.5, {e, -0.94}]]
```
#### 3. Fortran Solution

The program is modified, and it's output file is `01-12.txt` . The search method for $\beta$ is the secant method, with the initial two guesses $0.5$ and $3.0$ (defined by the last value in *Line 86*  in `01-12.for` ). The initial guess is modified dedicatedly, since if we expand the upper guess from $3.0$ to $4.0$, the program may not work. So the modification to find $\beta$ may not be a good one.









11
