## Exercise 1.8

Another important test of a working code is to compare its results with what is expected on the basis of physical intuition. Restore the code to use the Lennard-Jones potential and run it for $\gamma = 50$. Note that, as in the case of the purely parabolic potential discussed in the previous exercise, the first excited state is roughly three times as high above the bottom of the well as in the ground state and that the spacings between the few lowest states are roughly constant. This is because the Lennard-Jones potential is roughly parabolic about its minimum (see Figure 1.3). By calculating the second derivative of $V$ at the minimum, find the "spring constant" and show that the frequency of small-amplitude motion is expected to be
\[
\frac{\hbar \omega}{V_0} = \frac{6 \times 2^{5/6}}{\gamma} \sim \frac{10.691}{\gamma} \;.
\]
Verify that this is consistent with the numerical results and explore this agreement for different values of $\gamma$. Can you understand why the higher energies are more densely spaced than the lower ones by comparing the Lennard-Jones potential with its parabolic approximation?

### Solution

#### 1. Comparison between Lennard-Jones potential and parabolic potential for the few lowest states

Results are shown in the table in file `01-08.txt` . For parabolic potential, the ratio of the difference of few lowest states and the lowest point of the potential curve should be $1:3:5:7 \cdots$. For Lennard-Jones potential, the ratio seems not comparable with that of parabolic one.

#### 2. Spring Constant

The definition of the frequency $\omega$ is:
\[\omega = \sqrt{\frac{k}{m}} \;;\]
Here is a short review for the derivation of $\omega$. From Hooke's theorem, we know that for a spring, if we define $x$ as the deviation from the stable point, $m$ as the reduced mass of the spring, then the spring motion fomular should be
\[m \frac{\mathrm{d}^2 x}{\mathrm{d} \, t^2} = -k x \;,\]
where $k$ is the characteristic of the spring. If we have the initial status as
\[
\begin{align}
\left. x \right\vert_{t=0} &= x_\mathrm{Max} \\
\left. \frac{\mathrm{d} \, x}{\mathrm{d}\, t} \right\vert_{t=0} &= 0 \;,
\end{align}
\]
then we have
\[
x(t) = A \cos (\omega t) = x_\mathrm{Max} \cos \left( \sqrt{\frac{k}{m}} t \right) \;.
\]
The potential of this system can be described as
\[V(x) = \frac 1 2 k x^2\]
and it's second derivate is a constant:
\[V''(x) = k \;.\]

For Lennard-Jones potential, $\omega$ is not so appearant to derive. We first observe the formula of the potential function:
\[
V(r) = V_0 \cdot v \left( \frac{r}{a} \right) = V_0 \cdot v(x) \;
\]
where
\[
v(x) = 4 \left( \frac{1}{x^{12}} - \frac{1}{x^6} \right)
\]
then it's second derviate is
\[
V''(r) = \frac{V_0}{a^2} v'' \left( \frac{r}{a} \right) = \frac{V_0}{a^2} v''(x) \;.
\]
Then we can obtain the spring constant
\[
\begin{align}
\frac{\hbar\omega}{V_0}
&= \frac{\hbar}{V_0} \sqrt{\frac{V''(r)}{m}} = \hbar \sqrt{ \frac{1}{V_0} \cdot \frac{v''(x)}{a^2 m} }
\\&= \hbar \sqrt{ \frac{2 m a^2}{\gamma^2 \hbar^2} \cdot \frac{v''(x)}{a^2 m} }
\\&= \frac{\sqrt{2v''(x)}}{\gamma} \;.
\end{align}
\]
If the potential is parabolic like around the lowest area of the potential curve, then this "spring constant" will vary little when $x$ changes a little. The lowest point of the curve is at $x=2^{1/6}$. This accurate lowest point assumption is also applied in my numerical evaluation code. The comparison of the numerical "spring constant" with the analytical one has been rendered at the last three lines in the program's output file `01-08.txt` .

#### 3. Why energy separation of higher states are smaller

I do not have a rigorous thorough thinking for this discussion. I simply comprehend that for higher states, the acceleration at both ends is much smaller than that of the lower states when potential is Lennard-Jones like; while for the parabolic like potential, the acceleration is the same for all states.
