## Exercise 1.7

One of the most important aspects of using a computer as a tool to do physics is knowing when to have confidence that the program is giving the correct answers. In this regard, an essential test is the detailed quantitative comparison of results with what is known in analytically soluble situations. Modify the code to use a parabolic potential (in subroutine `POT` , taking care to heed the instructions given there), for which the Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization gives the exact eigenvalues of the Schroedinger equation: a series of equally-spaced energies, with the lowest being one-half of the level spacing above the minimun of the potential. For several values of $\gamma$, compare the numerical results for this case with what you obtain by solving Eq. (1.22) analytically. Are the phase space trajectories what you expect?

### Solution

#### For the standard code

To make the potential be the parabolic one, we should change the code in *Line 195* :
```Fortran
      POT=4*(x-1.5)**2-1
```
and *Line 234* :
```Fortran
      POTMIN=1.5
```

#### For my code

The parabolic potential can be available by changing the code around *Line 160, 229*  to change the integral upper and lower limit, for example around *Line 160* :
```Fortran
        ItgLoV(I+1) = 1.5D0 - 0.5D0 * Sqrt(1.0D0 + RtI)
        ItgUpV(I+1) = 1.5D0 + 0.5D0 * Sqrt(1.0D0 + RtI)
```
as well as the integral core around *Line 260* :
```Fortran
      Tmp = Eng - 4.0D0 * (Var-1.5)**2 + 1
```


To change the $\gamma$, we need to modify the code in *Line 56* :
```Fortran
      Gmr = 200.0D0
```

For both methods, the original code as well as the output has been attached in this directory. Apparently, the results are almost the same for both methods; however, since my code sets a higher precision, the deviation of the result of my code is less than that of the standard.
